avar 	axis variation 	Used to specify piecewise linear sections of axes for distortable fonts 
BASE 	baseline data 	Provides information on baseline positioning and per-script line heights in OpenType. 	
bsln 	baseline data 	Provides information on baseline positioning for AAT. 	
BDF  	X11 BDF header 	This table is not part of the official TrueType or OpenType specs. It contains the header information from old bdf fonts.
bdat 	bitmap data 	Provides the actual bitmap data for all bitmap glyphs in Apple fonts. 'EBDT' is used by MS/Adobe instead (and has the same format) 
bhed 	bitmap font header 	Replaces the 'head' table in Apple's bitmap only fonts.
bloc 	bitmap location data 	Provides pointers to the appropriate bitmap data for each bitmap glyph in Apple fonts. 'EBLC' is used by MS/Adobe instead (and has the same format) 	
CFF 	Compact Font Format 	Provides all the outline data (and sometimes glyph names as well) for the PostScript Type2 font that is the heart of an OpenType font. Vaguely equivalent to 'glyf' , 'loca' and 'post' combined. 	
cmap 	character code mapping 	Provides at least one encoding from a stream of bytes to glyphs in the font. FontForge provides at least three encodings in every font (one for Mac Roman, one for Mac Unicode, one for MS Unicode). For some fonts it will additionally provide a CJK encoding (Big5, SJIS, etc) or an extended unicode encoding which will cover code points outside of the BMP.

For fonts with special 1-byte encodings (such as symbol) it will provide a "symbol" encoding which maps a known page in the corporate use area to the glyphs.
cvar 	variations on cvt table 	Used to specify hinting differences in distortable fonts 
cvt 	control value table 	FontForge uses this when it attempts to hint truetype fonts (FontForge will read it from a font and save it into another). 	
EBDT 	embedded bitmap data 	Provides the actual bitmap data for all bitmap glyphs in MS/Adobe fonts. 'bdat' is used by Apple instead (and has the same format) 
EBLC 	embedded bitmap location 	Provides pointers to the appropriate bitmap data for each bitmap glyph in MS/Adobe fonts. 'bloc' is used by Apple instead (and has the same format) 	
EBSC 	embedded bitmap scaling 	Provides information on how to scale bitmaps (on those rare occasions where this is desirable). FontForge uses it when making bitmap only fonts for windows. 
feat 	layout feature table 	Maps features specified in Apple's 'morx' (or 'mort') tables into names provided in the 'name' table. FontForge generates this when it generates a 'morx' table. 	
FFTM 	FontForge timestamp 	This table is unique to FontForge. It contains three timestamps: First FontForge's version date, then when the font was generated, and when the font was created. I describe its format here. 	
fpgm 	font program 	FontForge never generates this, but it will preserve it and allows users to edit it. 	
fvar 	font variations 	Provides top level information about distortable fonts. Specifies the types of distortions possible. 
gasp 	grid-fitting and scan conversion 	When FontForge does not attempt to hint a truetype font it will generate this table which tells the rasterizer not to to do grid-fitting (hinting) but to do anti-aliasing instead. 	
GDEF 	glyph definition 	Divides glyphs into various classes that make using the GPOS/GSUB tables easier. Also provides internal caret positions for ligatures. It is approximately equivalent to Apple's 'prop' and 'lcar' tables combined. 	
glyf 	glyph outline 	Provides outline information for truetype glyphs. Vaguely equivalent to 'CFF '. 
GPOS 	glyph positioning 	Provides kerning information, mark-to-base, etc. for opentype fonts. See the chapter on GPOS in FontForge for more information. Vaguely equivalent to 'kern' and 'opbd' tables. 
GSUB 	glyph substitution 	Provides ligature information, swash, etc. for opentype fonts. See the chapter on GSUB in FontForge for more information. Vaguely equivalent to 'morx'. 
gvar 	glyph variations 	This table contains the meat of a distortable font. It specifies how each glyph can be distorted. 
head 	font header 	Contains general font information, such as the size of the em-square, a time stamp, check sum infomation, etc. 	
hhea 	horizontal header 	This table contains font-wide horizontal metric information. 	
hmtx 	horizontal metrics 	This contains the per-glyph horizontal metrics. 	
kern 	kerning 	Provides kerning information for Apple's truetype fonts (and for older MS truetype fonts). In OpenType fonts this information is contained in the GPOS table. 	
lcar 	ligature caret 	This table provides the location of carets within ligatures in an Apple font. This information is contained in the GDEF table in opentype fonts. 
loca 	glyph location 	This provides a pointer into the 'glyf' table for each glyph in the font. It is required for truetype and meaningless for opentype (where vaguely equivalent information is provided in the CFF table). 	
MATH 	mathematical typesetting 	Provides general information needed for mathematical typesetting.
This is a new table (August 2007) and there is currently no publicly available documentation for it. 	
maxp 	maximum profile 	Provides general "maximum" information about the font. This contains: the maximum number of glyphs in a font, the maximum number of points in a glyph, the maximum number of references in a glyph, etc. 
mort 	metamorphosis 	FontForge will read this table but not generate it. This table has been replaced by the 'morx' table which will be generated instead. It is vaguely equivalent to the GSUB table. 
morx 	extended metamorphosis 	Provides ligature information, swash, etc. for apple's truetype fonts. FontForge can read and write this table. See the chapter on morx in FontForge for more information. Vaguely equivalent to 'GSUB'. 
name 	name 	Provides certain standard strings relevant to the font (font name, family name, license, etc.) in various languages. In Apple fonts also provides the names of various features of the 'morx'/'mort' table. 	
opbd 	optical bounds 	This table provides optical bound information for each glyph in the table in an Apple font. This information may also be provided in the GPOS table of an opentype font. 
PfEd 	FontForge's personal table 	This table is unique to FontForge. It can contain things like FontForge's comments, and colors.I describe its format here. 	
post 	glyph name and postscript compatibility 	This table provides some additional postscript information (italic angle), but mostly it provides names for all glyphs. 	
prep 	cvt program 	FontForge never generatest this table itself, but it will retain it when reading other fonts, and it allows users to edit it. 	
prop 	glyph properties 	Provides the unicode properties of each glyph for an Apple font. This table bears some similarities to the GDEF table. 	
TeX 	TeX information 	This table is unique to FontForge and is for use by TeX. I describe its format here. 
vhea 	vertical header 	FontForge generates this table for fonts with vertical metrics. This table contains font-wide vertical metric information. 	
vmtx 	vertical metrics 	FontForge generates this table for fonts with vertical metrics. This contains the per-glyph vertical metrics.
